# Recession-Report
Everyone in the finance sector is aware there are three types of stocks, cyclical, growth, and defensive. Defensive stocks are recession resilient because they are in industries that will see less downturn when consumer spending declines as they are often necessities not luxuries. Growth stocks often are priced with their potential and rely heavily on consumer spending leading to worse effets in a recession. While it is common knowledge that defensive industries will outperform growth industries in a recession, I wanted to conduct an exact comparison of the top 3 industries in both growth and defensive to compare returns,  recovery, return adjusted for risk and to see if we can use this data to forecast future returns. 
In order to understand how these industries performed in the 2008 recession I selected the top 5 companies of each industry by market cap and pulled the monthly close price from December 2007 to June 2009. I obtained this data from Yahoo Finance by creating a function easily adaptable to work for each stock ticker, industry and time duration. This function pulled the month end price for our 15 tickers and for the SPDR ETF which I will use as a benchmark, in total this is 558 closing prices. The first thing I do with this data is create a formula to calculate the return for each ticker and an average return for each industry. 
Currently the returns are in a zoo or numeric class that cannot be used to create visualizations with ggplot2. To fix this I created a data frame that contains each industry's returns. Using the data frame I just created I used it to create a ggplot bar graph comparing our 6 industries and our benchmark returns. 
Now that we have a visual comparison of returns I wanted to compare metrics such as Beta, Alpha, and Sharpe Ratio. These formulas were made in a way that I could quickly insert them for either ticker. To calculate Alpha and Beta we also needed to calculate the rate of change. With the rate of change I also created 7 graphs plotted next to each other to see the volatility of each industry during the recession. 
Once I got the Beta, Alpha, and Sharpe ratio for each ticker I claucated a industry average for each ratio and put this information into a data frame so I could create a scatter plot. This scatter plot shows a comparison based on Beta and Alpha for our industries and shows a line of regression. 
The rest of the code is to build an ARIMA forecast for future performances. I start with an auto covariance and correlation test to see how the stocks are moving together. After the ACF and PACF I started to create a forecast for SPY first. When I have the forecast calculated I create a graph to show accuracy with an ADF test which shows my current forecast method to be inaccurate and needs to built on further. 
